So for some parts of user interfaces,
we wanna keep the users
focus in a certain area, and
this is called a keyboard trap.
And we don't wanna do it unintentionally,
LAUGH] we wanna do this for
certain components.
Like if you're in a modal,
that's a good use case.
Any kind of like new layer
that comes over the top,
like I've seen entire apps where it's
all layers upon layers, upon layers.
We wanna definitely keep users
from going outside of that layer.
And so
that's what's called a keyboard trap.
But it's sometimes it's unintentional,
like have you ever tried to navigate code
pen with a keyboard and you get into the
text area, and you hit the Tab key, and
it just keeps, you're in a text editor,
you can't get out.
That's a tab trap.
And you have to be kind of creative in
how you set that up to not have that
be a problem.
So one thing you could do, just as like
an authoring tool developer, would be to
wire up the Escape key, or some way to
get in and out of that edit mode so
that keyboard users have a way to skip by
it and they have a way to get in and out.
So keyboard traps.
And there is a criterion in WCAG,
it's Level A called no keyboard Traps.
It has some great information on like
what's acceptable and what's not.
We just don't wanna do
this unintentionally.
So here is an example of what a keyboard
trap looks, an intentional one.
So this stack blitz,
I'm gonna open in a new window.
So I've got a library in
here called react-aria.
Pretty awesome.
It's a little bit of an advanced tool,
I would say,
but I can create what's
called a FocusScope.
So that's like the easiest
focus trap I've ever seen.
It just it's a component
that I can pull in,
wrap it around the code that I
want to contain at the right time.
And I didn't even have to write
the actual focus trap, but
let's see how that works
cuz we should know.
So if I open this layer,
there are some focus level items in here,
there's a two inputs on a closed button.
So it's not styled really at all, but my
focus just cycles between these controls.
So between the inputs and the buttons.
So you can imagine if
this was in a new layer,
it would be pretty effective at
keeping my focus in that content.
Let's see what it actually put into
the page cuz that's pretty magical.
There's content next to it, though.
That's really what I wanna look is there
is an Open button and sure my keyboard
focus was trapped, but can I get behind
there somehow if it was a modal layer?
If I was a screen reader user is the rest
of the stuff all still reachable?
It probably is.
So this element, that input is
a div with all of our stuff in it,
and I think it just has some
JavaScript to cycle you around.
So in our previous example, we got
pretty nerdy with the inert attribute.
This is another case where
if you had a modal layer and
you were creating a FocusScope,
you could use inert on any background
content to keep screen reader users
from being able to reach back there,
cuz right now,
all we're doing is the JavaScript part.
But we're talking about focus,
so it's relevant.
But that's what a focus trap does, is it
keeps you kinda in that set of components.
And that's pretty easy to do, at least if
you can use the react-aria FocusScope.
There's probably other libraries, too,
other utilities that you could pull in.
It looked like kind of observing
their approach is that,
they have elements before and
after what we've inserted.
And so
that gives us some signposts for that.
The code underneath this that makes
that work, is whenever focus gets out of
the items that you inserted,
it just loops it around again.
They just kind of control where
your focus goes and send it back.
Question?
>> Actually,
they shared a very cool tip in chat,
if you open up Chrome DevTools and
you hit the I, and
then put in document.activeElement,
that's a live expression,
and you can see what
element is actually active.
>> Cool.
That's awesome.
>> So now as you move around,
it'll just live update right there.
>> Sweet, that's cool.
Yeah, I have seen that before,
and I forgot about it.
So thank you.
Chrome DevTools is amazing.
Cool, so focus traps.
And yeah, it kind of gives us techniques
that we can use to keep people
from getting stuck behind those layers.
So do you need inert backgrounds?
I think it really a good
answer to this question is
just a like how easy
would it be to implement.
It works best when you have a sibling.
So say I have modal content,
if it's buried in my content like it in
the DOM somewhere, it's gonna be really
hard to use a nerd because it's the modal
content is amongst everything else.
Whereas if the the modal and
say, main are siblings and
there's some separation,
I could put a nerd on the main element and
that will keep that in the background,
and then my modal will live separately.
You just have to pay attention to
where your content that needs to stay
on top that should be reachable and
accessible and trapped.
That should be not inert, [LAUGH] that's
the stuff we wanna navigate with.
So I think sometimes
the keyboard trap can be enough.
I think you really wanna
test it in a screen reader.
Yeah, it's like part of the story,
but a worthy technique.
Keyboard shortcuts.
So let's talk briefly
about keyboard shortcuts.
They can be helpful, so
if you have UI actions,
especially if the shortcut takes a lot
more work than one a mouse user could do,
like the accessible say you
can do the same task, but
it takes a bit more effort, a keyboard
shortcut could be a good use case.
And we have quite a few built-in,
like Cmd+F for finding, Cmd+P for print.
Those are keyboard shortcuts that
are built into the platform.
Or Ctrl+ P on a Windows machine.
But custom keyboard shortcuts
can be useful in web apps.
And so there are a couple of libraries
that could make this easier.
There's one from Arthur Beaulieu and
Jon Kuperman.
And so you can check those out.
They're both named shortcut.js,
[LAUGH] popular name for
that type of tool, but what that can
help you do is manage meta keys.
So if I have like combinations of keys,
it takes a little bit of trickery
to match that combination.
It's not impossible, but sometimes
using a little utility makes it easier.
And so, we can create those shortcuts.
So there's two things that
I want you to be aware of.
One is that shortcuts
need to be discoverable.
If we put all this effort and,
dev work into creating shortcuts that
nobody knows about,
it might be a little bit of a waste.
So, put them in your help documentation.
I think Facebook had a cool
approach at one point where
they had an accessibility
nav bar that would pop
up at the top of the page when
you started to use the keyboard.
I don't know if it's still there, but
some way to tell users that you
have these keyboard shortcuts.
Like if there's a little help icon on the
page or just like make them easy to find,
cuz they're gonna be really niche and
maybe not use that much otherwise,
put them on your accessibility docs or
on an accessibility statement.
And then the other thing
I want you to know about,
keyboard shortcuts is watch out for
conflicts with screen readers commands.
So especially on Windows, there
are common key commands already in place,
like the H key that will
cycle through headings.
So you don't wanna just use plain
letters for your shortcuts,
they need to be kind of unique.
So yeah, just something to be aware
of that they're like screen reader
commands need to still work.